Greetings. This is J.W. Broadcasting for January 2025.
In last month's broadcast, we shared part one of the 2024 annual meeting.
It included uplifting talks and videos and that is more to share.
Please enjoy part two of the annual meeting.
The next part of our program relates to the remarkable response
we've seen to Jehovah's Mercy express to those who had been removed from the congregation.
It's a video entitled Blessings of Jehovah's Mercy. Please enjoy.
The governing body has prayerfully considered how Jehovah's Mercy could be better reflected when dealing with wrongdoers in the congregation.
In his love, Jehovah wants sinners to become reconciled to him if at all possible.
He doesn't want anyone to be destroyed, so he appeals to them to repent.
And we see these pictures, you know, illustrations about,
there might be a drawing or something that shows a shepherd going after that one large sheep.
And you think that's really nice? You know, in concept, oh, that's good.
But it's not just an academic concept. It's reality.
The fact that he loves people in this way, even those who have been removed from the congregation,
just gives me an opportunity to reflect that same love that Jehovah has and extend that to others as well.
The elders in our circuit promptly responded to the adjustments.
Once they heard the update, we got the printed direction, the brothers promptly met together.
With the fellow elders, we all discuss how we can help all these ones in our territory that have been removed from the congregation.
And we visited them. They were grateful that they were not forgotten. They are still remembered.
It's heartwarming to hear reports of how Jehovah has blessed congregation elders as they search for those who have been removed from the congregation.
For example, in the first four months after the 2024 governing body update number two in the South Africa and Philippines branched territories combined,
more than 1,200 have come back to the congregation here in the United States branched territory.
Over 5,000 brothers and sisters have been welcomed back.
In the Brazil branched territory, some 5,200 publishers have been reinstated.
And in the Central America branched territory, over 5,300 individuals have come back to the congregation.
The numbers are exciting, but we can't overlook that each of these dear ones have returned to Jehovah and Jehovah loves them.
One man came to mind because he's deaf and blind, and he'd been away from Jehovah for 45 years.
We prayed with him, we asked him where he was with things, and he said, I want to be back. I want to be back in the family.
That's what he said. He's been studying regularly and attending the meetings ever since then, and he was reinstated about a month later.
When I tacked child that announcement for him that night, I said, you're back in the family. You're a Jehovah's witness again, and he was just overjoyed at that.
There's a pioneer sister in our circuit that was asked to conduct a study with a young mom who's trying to make her way back to Jehovah.
She was so excited after the first study. She said that first study went so well.
It seems like everyone in the congregation is very happy just to have this arrangement in place.
A sister told me it made her so happy to see that young mom who's studying, smiling again. She hadn't seen it in a long time.
One experience that is exciting is that this man has been removed for over 30 years, but he started coming to the meetings early this year.
But he would sit at the back and not talk to anyone. But eventually after this arrangement has been made available when we visited him, he was so excited.
Because he said, I didn't know what to do to come back to the congregation, and here we are visiting him.
And he says he felt like a heavyweight has been lifted off his shoulders, and he has been reinstated.
A young man that I studied the Bible was who came into the truth under great difficulty.
And so we thought of him immediately. And right away I sent him a message because I still had his phone number and said, please watch this governing body update that I sent him the link.
Well, the next day I received a reply to this message, and there was a photo of a letter that he had written to the congregation body of elders asking to be reinstated.
I wrote back very excitedly and said, have you actually watched the update? And he said, yes, since yesterday I have watched this update six times.
Well, of course our hearts were absolutely overflowing. But it was even we were even happier when about a month later he was writing us to say, I have finally been reinstated.
The sister that was asked to conduct a study with a person and she says, the greatest gift I've ever gotten is to study with someone who has been removed from the congregation.
So her experience of crying with her, telling her that she liked her bag and the student says, I bought this bag years ago so I could go out and service when I got ready.
When I was reinstated, showed her that she had been trying for a long time to come back but just did not know how.
And so the student now realizes that that was Jehovah, that is helping her and she feels grateful to be helped to come back.
By sitting on that Bible study with someone who was removed from the congregation and seeing the benefit helped me to see the depth of Jehovah's mercy.
Because this young man has been removed from the congregation for nine years. He has wanted to come back, he mentioned, but he just didn't have the strength to make steps to come back.
One person had been removed from the congregation some 17 years ago and on his own he was watching JW Broadcasting.
He saw the update, he said, this is, it's time to come home.
And so he called the kingdom hall, he left a voicemail and the brothers received his message, they reached right out to him.
A Bible study was started and very happily, he too has progressed, progressed to being reinstated and his parents were able to fly in
and be there at the kingdom hall that night, he was reinstated. He later said this is truly a homecoming.
I feel like it helps us to see another side of Jehovah as our father and you see how much he loves his children and then he allows us to have a part in helping them to come back to him.
And so we get to reflect his mercy too, it's such a privilege.
Back in 1979 my father was removed from the congregation and I was eight.
You can grow up thinking, okay, maybe my dad will come back in, a decade goes by, two decades goes by, three decades goes by.
And you don't want to lose hope, but it does tend to make you think that maybe this person might not ever come back.
I get a phone call and it's a friend of mine I've known for many years. He and another brother went to go see my dad and he even accepted a study.
At this point, I said, wow, I said that's great because most of my childhood and my entire adult life, I have not known a father who was serving Jehovah.
You should never, ever underestimate the lengths Jehovah will go to to save one sheep, one sheep.
If you weren't a believer in Jehovah's mercy before, no one will ever be able to say when everything is over in the system of things that Jehovah didn't care enough, he didn't make the efforts, he didn't send anybody out.
You really can't say that because Jehovah is making sure that the extra effort was made.
Very touching indeed, but it wasn't just a one-time invitation in an imitation of our father Jehovah, the elders continue to try to render assistance to those who have been removed from the congregation, they continue to reach out to them.
But Jehovah is more than just a God of mercy, what's the connection with his righteousness and his justice?
Brother Kenneth Cook will now discuss the theme, help to tear down and to build up.
Well, we certainly have learned much during the past few years regarding Jehovah's mercy, haven't we?
In fact, even just today we've highlighted how we now have a broader understanding of Jehovah's mercy during the Great Tribulation.
The May 2024 watchtower stated this, even after the Great Tribulation starts, it is possible that some who see the destruction of Babylon the Great will recall that Jehovah's Witnesses had long spoken of this event.
Might some who see these events have a change of heart and of quote, well, it could be.
And if so, we'll be happy for them, won't we?
Then there's Jehovah's mercy in welcoming repentant ones back into the congregation.
Again, we've been highlighting this and properly so, what a beautiful thing.
The August 2024 watchtower stated,
Jehovah does not condone unrepentant wrongdoing, however, he does not turn his back on wrongdoers.
He wants them to return.
Jehovah's feelings toward unrepentant wrongdoers are pardon me, repentant wrongdoers are expressed at Hosea 14 and verse 4.
And he says towards such repentant ones here, he quoted in the article,
I will heal their unfaithfulness, I will love them of my own free will, because my anger has turned away.
The article continued, what a strong incentive for elders to respond to any sign of repentance, and what a strong incentive for those who have left Jehovah to return without delay.
Well, throughout the Scriptures, we see Jehovah's warm appeal to wrongdoers urging them to repent.
At Zechariah 1 and verse 3, we read that Jehovah told his prophet,
say to them,
This is what Jehovah of Army says, return to me, declares Jehovah of armies, and I will return to you.
But does our increased understanding of Jehovah's mercy here mean that his righteous and just standards have somehow been changed?
Also in line with our theme, what thing should we properly tear down and what thing should we desire to build up?
According to Ecclesiastes chapter 3 and verse 3, it's scriptural to do both as needed.
Along with the opening comment from verse 1, verse 3 reads in part,
there is an appointed time for everything, a time to tear down, and a time to build up.
So then to answer our questions, let's examine Jehovah's love of righteousness, justice, and mercy.
At Psalm 33 and verse 5, the inspired writer highlights that Jehovah loves righteousness and justice.
Also, Jesus' words recorded at Matthew 9 and verse 13 highlight that Jehovah wants mercy, not sacrifice.
Saint Jehovah loves each of these qualities.
How does he balance what he righteously chooses to tear down with what he mercifully chooses to build up?
He does so by knowing how these qualities work together.
Now, some things just go together.
Let's just make it every day real life.
It illustrates, for some people, an ice cream Sunday,
it's not complete unless it includes chocolate sauce, whipped cream, sprinkles, and what else?
The cherry on top, right?
The combination is what defines it.
Well, far more importantly, on a spiritual level, our love of righteousness and our acts of justice must include mercy
whenever possible.
Jehovah requires that we uphold all of his righteous standards.
So to answer a question from earlier, James 117 tells us that Jehovah does not vary or change.
And quoting Jehovah himself, Malachi 3 and verse 6 says,
I am Jehovah, I do not change.
So then, Jehovah doesn't change.
And his standards as to what is right and wrong have not changed.
That is why recent adjustments to our view of God's mercy are just that.
Adjustments to our view or understanding.
Have you been able to adjust?
Jesus too loves righteousness, justice, and mercy, and like his father, he does not change.
Hebrews 138 says of Jesus that he is the same yesterday and today and forever.
This means that what Jesus did while he was on earth teaches us about his thinking now, right now.
For example, Jesus displayed intense love for righteousness and justice by driving out the money changers from the temple area on two occasions.
The money changers were extorting the people and they were turning Jehovah's house into a house of commerce and Jesus hated that.
He hated it.
Jesus' zeal for what is right moved him to act.
And in doing so, he also demonstrated his merciful concern for the people.
Above all, we see in such actions the love that Jesus has for the pure worship of his father.
And because Jesus doesn't change, he still has the same desire to drive out what is bad.
The wickedness of this world increases.
We know that Jehovah and his son will always do what is right, what is just, and what is merciful.
At Exodus 34, verses 6 and 7, we find a summary of Jehovah's balanced qualities.
Now it reads in part, Jehovah, Jehovah, a God merciful and compassionate, slow to anger and abundant in loyal love and truth,
showing loyal love to thousands, pardoning error and transgression and sin, but he will by no means leave the guilty unpunished.
Well, knowing that Jehovah will by no means leave the guilty unpunished, what thing should we then help to tear down or send away from the congregations?
At the same time, knowing that Jehovah is merciful and compassionate as stated there, what thing should we then help to build up and welcome back into the congregation?
We'll look at an interesting account in Zechariah chapter 5, as well as some other accounts and find some answers.
As we do, look for the lessons that we can apply to our efforts to show righteousness, justice, and mercy.
So then first of all, what should we tear down and send out?
The concept of tearing down is not difficult to see when we think of it in terms of a building.
Some houses are just beyond repair, and for this reason they must be torn down.
The house and disillustration makes that point, doesn't it? I don't think you're going to fix that one.
Have that in mind as we consider what Zechariah saw.
Now Zechariah was a prophet who was favored with seeing some amazing God-given visions, and what he said describes real conditions that existed in Israel at the time.
At Zechariah 5 and verse 2, we read that an angel asks Zechariah, what do you see?
Zechariah replies that he sees a very large flying scroll depicted here.
The flying scroll was written on both sides and contains a curse that tears down the houses of wickedness leaving evil exposed.
One side of the scroll targets those who steal.
The other side targets those who lie or who make false oaths.
After the house is consumed or torn down, he next sees an ifa container.
It contains a figurative woman referred to as wickedness who is trying to escape.
She is exposed, and the angel treats her appropriately by throwing her back into the container and thrusting a heavy lead weight over it.
The container with wickedness is then removed from the land.
The angels' actions leave no doubt about how Jehovah views such things.
What lessons can we take away from the vision?
Well, first, we see that Jehovah does not tolerate wickedness such as lying and stealing.
We find scriptural examples of this and how Jehovah dealt with greedy aiken or what happened with Ananias and Sapphira.
We know those accounts, don't we?
God's word lists many things that Jehovah does not tolerate.
For instance, Proverbs 6 verses 16 through 19 speaks of Jehovah's hatred for a lying tongue,
hands that shed innocent blood, a heart plotting wicked schemes, or a false witness who lies with every breath and so forth.
And Revelation 21-8 speaks of everlasting destruction for those who unrepentantly practice what isn't moral.
Well, next, we learn from Sekhira's vision that Jehovah uses his faithful angels to expose wickedness.
The lesson? Treat wickedness like Jehovah and his faithful angels do by tearing it down, exposing it, and removing it from the congregation.
Expose and remove.
We do not want the conduct of unrepentant ones to take up residence in our congregations.
That is why, since sin is still on the earth, the elders will continue to remove unrepentant ones from the congregation.
Nevertheless, while there are things that we must send out from the congregation, what must we help to build it up and welcome back into the congregation?
When wrongdoing is removed from among Jehovah's people and they are united together in clean and pure worship, Jehovah sees this and his people are blessed.
Malachi 3 verse 16 tells us that he is paying attention and he is listening.
For those who properly fear him, he places their names in his book of remembrance. What a privilege.
Even so, to keep his blessing, we must also imitate his mercy and remain ready to welcome back repentant ones.
Like the concept of tearing down, the concept of building up is not difficult to picture when you think of it in terms of a building.
Now, some houses are in bad shape, but they are not beyond repair, like the one we saw earlier, they can be restored as illustrated on screen.
It is in bad shape, but look at that. It can be fixed up.
With that in mind, when it comes to welcoming back and building up repentant ones, we are helped to do this when we imitate Jesus and the faithful angels.
They have not only witnessed Jehovah's mercy from the start, but they have developed this quality themselves.
Here is what we mean. When humans were first created, mercy was not needed because humans were perfect.
Only after the rebellion, when the first imperfect child was born, did this aspect of Jehovah's love and compassion become evident.
Jesus and the angels witnessed Jehovah's great love and action when he extended mercy to humans who were born in sin.
In turn, these faithful angels imitated their Heavenly Father and showed mercy in helping to build up repentant ones on earth.
For example, Jesus showed mercy to Peter, didn't he, and also to the woman who poured perfumed oil on his feet.
Jesus used powerful illustrations to help us understand the depth of God's mercy, just reading the parable of the lost Son who returned and Luke 15 makes the point, doesn't it?
So like Jesus and the faithful angels, we desire to imitate Jehovah's precious qualities, all of them.
That is why we seek to welcome back and build up repentant ones.
We do this in harmony with the direction that the congregations have received.
Now regarding this direction, one person who was removed from the congregation wrote to the governing body, and this is what he said.
The fact that friends can now say a simple heartfelt greeting blows my mind.
I have felt like a walking plague walking into the kingdom hall as many friends avoided eye contact and would clear out of the way.
But I get it. That was our understanding up until that time.
Jehovah is an amazing one and only true God. His love is always being manifested as in this case to direct you brothers to announce this new arrangement.
I look forward to receiving a visit from the elders.
Well, what a fine expression that was.
Things do change over time. But like that repentant when he gets it and see we get it.
Jehovah is helping us to understand why these changes come and we comply and we love it.
As we have considered Jehovah's qualities of love and mercy, though, have not changed.
But our understanding of his marvelous qualities, well, this has improved.
Each of us must work to learn the depth of his love and mercy and then show the depth of these things ourselves.
At the same time, Jehovah's standards of righteousness and justice have not changed.
Each of us must work to uphold his standards of right and wrong.
Like the angel and Zechariah's prophecy, elders today must protect Jehovah's people by exposing, restraining and sending out what is bad from the congregation.
So in summary, while we do not hesitate to tear down wickedness and send it away, we desire to do all that we can to bring back and build up those who return to Jehovah.
Thank you, Brother Ken. A beautiful talk illustrating Jehovah's mercy and love, yet also his justice and righteousness.
May we all continue to work hard to reflect those qualities in our life.
Now, earlier in our program, we saw a trailer for the video, become Jehovah's Friend, the greatest act of love.
And it ended with the words, coming soon. Well, soon has arrived.
Let's now enjoy the full length, epic episode, become Jehovah's Friend, the greatest act of love.
Having a memorial, and you have to come, it's the most important event. This invite is for you and your mom. I can tell you more about it at our study.
Okay, thanks. See you later, Sophia.
That's right, Camille. Okay, let's move on to the next paragraph. Do you mind reading?
Okay, sure. Many people hope for good things to happen. But they cannot be sure that they're home.
Okay, now it's your turn. Life was perfect. Adam and Eve just thought they'd Jehovah. They lost their perfect life and died. Right. After that, nobody was perfect.
So everyone would grow old and die. Jesus came to earth and taught everyone about Jehovah. He gave his life. He died for us. That's right. So that in the future, nobody will have to die.
Has anybody ever given you a special gift? Hmm, they gave it to you because she loved me. Right. Jehovah and Jesus gave us the greatest gift. It costs a lot.
But they gave it to us because they love us. And I want us to live forever. But what about my grandma?
Their gift is for her too. There's somebody in the Bible I would like you to meet. She's a lot like you.
Luke chapter 7. She lived in a city called Nain. She had a husband and a son.
Her husband died. She still had her son to keep her company. Her son died too. They both died. She was already a widow. And now she was all alone.
The day of the funeral, Jesus came to Nain. And he saw the widow. Stop weeping. Young man, I say to you, get up.
He said, Jesus brought him back to life. He loved them. He loves all of us. He loves you. That's why he died for us.
Jehovah brought Jesus back to life. Soon, Jesus will resurrect people. And because he died for us, we could all live forever.
It's the greatest gift anyone could give us. When we go to the memorial, it's a way to say thank you.
Hmm. I hope my mom wants to come too.
Hi baby. Should we get ready for the memorial?
Oh honey, it was a long day. I'm so sorry. I don't think we can make it.
Wait to see you tonight. Let us know if you need a ride. It's Sophia's mom.
Mom, we can do this. Let's do it.
Yay!
Yes, my little princess. I'm glad you're studying the Bible. Me too.
At this time, we'll have the passing of the wine. As we all go home tonight, think about what Jesus sacrificed means to you.
Zoe, turn around.
Be a girl from us here now.
Jehovah has shown love in many ways.
But when he gave Jesus life for us, that was the greatest act of love.
It's remarkable how even Caleb and Sophia videos can touch our emotions.
That was not brought to you by artificial intelligence, just so you know.
Our brothers and sisters, dear brothers and sisters in audio video services, devoted thousands of hours.
We wish to express thanks to them. And of course, we express thanks to Jehovah for this touching video portrayal.
Brother Steve, I think part of that applause was for you.
The next part of our program relates to the cherished hope of living forever.
And brother Lett has been experiencing a little bit of back pain, but he is improving.
So he just wanted us to relate that before his next talk.
But he will discuss the theme, Everlasting Life.
Possible?
Boring? Brother Lett, you have our attention.
The good news that we preach has many facets, many aspects, like a gorgeous, multifaceted diamond.
But now, what is one facet that we especially enjoy teaching people about?
The fact that fateful humans under kingdom rule will never grow old and die.
Unlike Adam and Eve who threw away the privilege to eat of the tree of life and live forever,
fateful humans will be granted life without end.
But now, sometimes when we discuss this aspect of the good news, people will bring up a couple of questions.
One, they may say, is Everlasting Life really possible?
It just seems like it's too good to be true.
And two, if I actually do live forever, will life not eventually become boring?
Well, let's discuss those two questions during our talk.
Now, first, how can we be sure that Everlasting Life will become a reality?
The first and foremost reason, because the God who cannot lie has promised it.
Revelation 21 4 Jehovah says that He will wipe out every tear and death will be no more.
And then, in effect, He publicly signs that promise.
In the next verse, verse 5, He says, right for these words are fateful and true.
In other words, write it down where everyone can see what I promised and I certify it will happen.
It will happen. I guarantee it will.
But now, here's a question.
What evidence do we have that humans originally were designed to live forever?
Well, think about the first book of the Bible, the introductory book.
The first two humans were told if they ate from the tree of the knowledge of good at bad,
they would certainly die.
Now, what is implied?
If they didn't eat, they were fateful, obedient, they would still be alive, they would never die.
How old would Adam be now?
Little over 6,000 years old.
Eve, a little bit younger.
How would they look?
Just as beautiful handsome, perfect as the day they were created.
What would be their health condition?
They would feel just as healthy and vibrant as the day they were created.
Now, we know they did sin and they died as Jehovah said,
but his original purpose he was for them to live.
And that purpose will be fulfilled as scriptures in the Bible certainly verify.
What's another line of reasoning that we were originally designed to live forever?
Well, think about the astounding capacity of the human brain.
Now, scientists in recent years are finding out more and more that the brain has much more capacity
than they previously thought even just a couple of years ago.
Here's what a recent study had to say about this.
It said the average adult human brain's memory capacity is estimated to be
two and a half million gigabytes.
Now, if you want to compare that with a smartphone, the average smartphone 150 gigabytes,
two and a half million gigabytes, the brain?
150, a smartphone.
No comparison.
In fact, that study went on to say that the brain would never run out of storage capacity
because new memories keep replacing old wines.
That happens because new neural connections are formed.
So the brain was obviously designed to last forever.
Never fill up.
Don't give me your name.
Don't give me any more information.
My brain is full. I can't take it.
Never reach that point, see?
Brain could always take more Jehovah made it that way.
You want to get a little maybe idea about the capacity of the human brain.
Think about the tremendous download that Jesus received at His baptism.
Eons of time, the memory of that all downloaded the human brain that Jesus had was able to hold.
That's it. It was a human brain.
It's perfect, but a human brain.
The brain obviously is a very, very big place in a very, very small space, isn't it?
That certainly is the case.
Now, here's our intriguing question.
Why would Jehovah create us with a super brain, super capacity if we're only designed to live 70 or 80 years?
Would even make sense, would it?
That would be like making a smartphone with two and a half million gigabyte capacity,
knowing that the user would only use a few hundred gigabytes in his whole lifetime.
Or like building an automobile with a million horsepower engine,
knowing the owner would only use a few hundred horsepower during his life.
It wouldn't make sense, would it?
The brain obviously loudly proclaims that humans were designed to live forever.
Now, let's get one more line of reasoning that we're designed to live forever.
Go to Ecclesiastes, please. Ecclesiastes chapter 3.
In verse number 11, we'll read the A part, says,
He, Jehovah, has made everything beautiful in its time.
He has even put eternity in their heart.
Now, what does that mean?
Well, Jehovah has implanted in the hearts of humans the desire, the strong craving to live eternally, to live forever.
Now, think about it, isn't it true?
When death lurks at a person's door, we see they keep trying to live, don't they?
They will pursue doctors, medicine, they will endure all kinds of difficult treatments.
They want to live. If a person was asked to pick the day on which he wished to die,
most would keep pushing that day farther and farther into the future with them.
See, they want to keep living.
See, throughout history, humans have looked for the fountain of youth, the medicine, the elixir, a potion to keep them living,
and the search certainly continues today.
But now, here's our intriguing question.
Why would Jehovah create humans with that strong desire if they're only meant to live 70 or 80 years?
It'd actually be cruel, wouldn't it?
Be kind of like you think of this illustration tying a dog on a 20-foot chain
and putting a juicy steak 21 feet from the post where that chain was secured.
The dog could see that steak, he could smell that steak, but he couldn't get a bite of it, could he?
That would be cruel, and we know Jehovah is definitely not a cruel God.
He's a very loving Heavenly Father.
Well, the foregoing is just a few reasoning points that humans were designed and will live forever.
Now, let's get that second question.
Why do some people reason that living forever would be boring?
Well, some reason that if everyone lives forever, they're all perfect.
Will they not all eventually become carbon copies of each other, with variety being lost?
Well, that reasoning is not sound.
Our publication is this life all there is, addressed that shallow reasoning.
Here's what it said.
It said, life in human perfection does not mean that everyone will be doing all things equally well
and with the same intense interest.
What the Bible holds forth is the promise of life without sickness and death.
Healthy people today are not all alike.
So why should anyone conclude that bodily and mental perfection would make people virtual copies of one another?
People will still vary as to personality.
They will have varying preferences as to work, building, home decoration, landscaping, food and drink, entertainment, the fine arts, and so forth.
Additionally, think about this.
There is nothing, absolutely nothing boring about Jehovah or any of his creation.
I personally can't think of any two things that are exactly identical.
Even so-called identical twins you're looking at here.
Notice their teeth are different.
Their freckle pattern is different.
Their fingerprints are different.
Their personalities are different.
They are certainly not identical.
In fact, there are no two dogs, no two trees, no two tigers, no two things I can think of.
They're exactly alike.
Think about zebras for a moment.
Now you look at this herd of zebras.
It looks like they're basically all striped the same.
No two zebras on the planet striped exactly the same.
And scientists even think that this is how a baby zebra recognizes and finds his mother in a big herd.
He memorizes her unique striping pattern.
Isn't it amazing what evolution can do?
If you believe that, I've got a bridge to sell you.
It's amazing what Jehovah has done.
Think about snowflakes for a moment.
Out of the trillions of snowflakes that fall in one large snowstorm, no two alike.
Amazing even though all of them are succeeded.
As you can see here, they're hexagonal.
But no two alike.
Nothing boring about Jehovah.
And you can be sure that humans who are the work of the hands of a God of that kind of infinite variety will never become carbon copies of one another.
Now another reason though that people think some of them that living forever would be boring, they think that finally you would learn everything to learn.
You'd do everything there is to do.
And life would cease to be stimulating.
It would become drab and uninteresting.
Well again, such reasoning is not sound.
First of all, to repeat something that is pleasurable is not boring is it?
I mean think about eating.
Most people eat over a thousand meals in a year.
Does a man who is 40 years old eating over 40,000 meals is he more bored than the 20 year old?
Who's eaten 20,000 meals?
No, that certainly is not the case.
Think about apples.
How many varieties of apples have you personally tasted?
Maybe a couple of dozen.
Fiji, Gala, Rome, Macintosh, Red and Golden delicious, Granny Smith, Jonathan, Winsap.
Maybe you've tried a couple of dozen.
Studies show there are more than 7,500 varieties of apples grown in the earth.
If you sample one apple every day, it would take you over 20 years.
Just to sample the varieties that are grown in the earth today, not speaking of ones, new ones that may be developed in the New World, but take you over 20 years.
And you could go 20 years later, back and eat that first one, you sample.
It'd be like a brand new variety, wouldn't it?
Nothing boring about Jehovah's creation.
Think about this, too.
Another example.
If you take a wonderful vacation and a beautiful part of the earth, you go back into the same area, you take another vacation in the summer.
Are you bored?
No, repeating pleasurable things are not boring.
And also, to remember, is that you will never learn it all.
We will never do it all.
Learn it or do it all.
Let's go back to Ecclesiastes, chapter 3.
And this time, let's read the entire verse, verse number 11.
He, Jehovah, has made everything beautiful in its time.
He has even put eternity in their heart.
Yet mankind, now look at that word, will never, never find out the work that the true God has made from start to finish.
So, Jehovah says, you'll never learn it all, you'll never do it all.
How long would it take you to learn to play all the musical instruments that exist today to learn to play them well?
People spend their whole life learning to play one instrument, don't they?
When they die, they wish they had more time to develop that skill.
What about new instruments even invented in the New World?
You, you brothers, imagine living a hundred years with a beard, a hundred years with just a mustache, a hundred years with a go-t, a hundred years clean shaven.
Then go back in and repeat that process with different variations.
Imagine living a hundred years in a beautiful house that you built in the mountains, you and your family, and then trading that house
with a house that a family built on the seashore.
And you live in that house for a hundred years.
And you continue the trading process all around the planet Earth.
So, finally, you get back to that original house that you built in the mountains, but now it's greatly improved.
Remodel and beautiful, you live there another hundred years, you start that process.
Again, I mean, just think about some of these things.
Imagine learning about all the millions of varieties of fish, amphibians, mammals, birds, insects.
I read about one man who studied fleas.
22 years, he spent studying fleas.
He is a flea expert.
Probably doesn't know much about anything else, but he knows about fleas.
22 years.
Imagine getting to know and appreciate every human among the billions who will be living on the earth,
getting to know and appreciate every one of them.
Learning from their talents, their experiences coming to regard them as a dear friend.
Just one example.
When you like to spend some time with Noah's wife, I know I'd like to know, what is your name?
Right now, we know a sister Noah, right?
And how were you and your husband able to protect your son from the evil influence that was around you?
What was it like in those years before the flood?
What was it like to come out of the earth?
You could spend a lot of time with Noah's wife, couldn't you?
Imagine learning about all, each one of the more than 200 billion stars in the Milky Way galaxy.
And then after you do that, you can go to the next galaxy.
And they estimate there are more galaxies than there are individual stars in the Milky Way galaxy.
Now you think of that and it gives you a headache, doesn't it?
A lot of time could be user even more impossible.
Imagine learning about Jehovah throughout all eternity.
We will learn more and more fascinating things about our God and never begin to learn it all.
Well, we could go on and on, but hopefully we could use some of these points if we ever encounter someone who brings up that reasoning,
is it really possible to live forever?
It's not only possible, it's guaranteed, isn't it?
And it definitely will not be boring.
And hopefully all of us appreciate even more this marvelous prize that Jehovah has invited humans to reach out and take hold of,
don't miss it, don't miss it, reach out and take hold of the real life.
As always, you've given us much to think about, Brother Steve.
Many thought-provoking illustrations as well. Thank you so much.
At last year's annual meeting, we received a new brochure.
Love people make disciples.
And we embraced a new approach to our ministry.
How's it going for you?
The following video will share a few experiences related to our new approach to the ministry.
Let's watch.
Did I enjoy memorizing presentations?
No.
I think I just got used to memorizing presentations. It was something we did since we were kids.
I found that it was kind of hit or miss in the way that people responded.
Sometimes they responded well, sometimes they didn't, because maybe that wasn't a subject that interested them.
When I was feeling kind of unsure, like what to do, I'd probably just bail out with,
but I don't want to take too much of your time right now.
And I was nice talking with you and maybe some other time.
I read and studied the brochure completely.
Honestly, I felt that I got this. I didn't.
When we first got this brochure, I was very intimidated because I was so used to the method that we used before.
I was at the airport and the guy behind me, he's complaining about the heating floor there
and that the only reason why he was there is because of a funeral.
I stopped him and I said, excuse me, I overheard you saying that you were here for a funeral.
Who died? And he said, my mother-in-law.
Then I remember I have a magazine about comfort for those who grieve.
And then I pulled the magazine out and the conversation was done.
In my mind, I said, wow, wow.
He ain't gonna talk no more.
He didn't.
I love our new approach because people can see Jehovah's people as loving, caring, people, not just preachers.
Because there's no agenda necessarily, you're not trying to leave a specific publication, you feel more relaxed.
And oftentimes the conversation's naturally gonna go there.
And sometimes it doesn't lead to opening up to a scripture.
Just talking about their crazy situation at work or something else going on in their family.
But it's okay because I made a friend.
So this lady, I was about to pay and she had these very colorful nails.
Long colorful decorated nails.
And it's like she wanted me to say something about her nails.
She definitely wanted to make a statement with that.
So I said, girl, your nails look good.
And she was like, my nails have a meaning.
And I'm like, they do.
And she's like, yeah, I want to support domestic violence.
Domestic awareness month.
And I'm like, well, you really care about people.
We went to the website.
We showed the website.
And the feature article for that month was literally about domestic abuse.
And she got to see some Bible principles.
And she took that with her.
And we had a good conversation.
My wife and I were working together in a territory.
And we were walking back to our cause.
I saw a man across the street in the block that was already done.
And we asked him how his week has been going.
That led to us asking what sort of work he did.
From that bit of interest, he really appreciated it.
He loved what we had to say.
And so he actually just asked out of the blue for a study.
After we showed him the enjoy life wherever brochure.
He's attended many meetings and been a good return visit.
When I entered a shop, I started a conversation with the owner.
I asked, how long have you been doing this job?
We talked about a lot of things.
Then naturally she started expressing how she always had questions about life.
I then offered a Bible study and she accepted the offer with interest.
And on, we have been studying each week and about five months have passed.
But we continue to enjoy the discussions.
I was walking through a park one day and I saw a family.
I had a beautiful conversation.
I asked a few questions and listening to them,
I was really able to hear the concerns of their heart regarding the future for their daughter.
I offered a Bible study.
I've been studying now every week and she attended the convention for the first time this year.
And she's been attending meetings.
By us showing them some love, they might feel like they might be worthy of more love than just from us but from their creator.
This has really helped me to view them as a potential servant of Jehovah as one of my brothers and sisters.
I don't want to be that obstacle.
Let me listen, let me be patient, let me, let me be humble and wait to see at the right time.
But my goal is still the same.
We're going to talk about my God, Jehovah.
I just know so fast.
So may all of us continue to show love for people and continue to try to make disciples.
Earlier this year we received the soundtrack to last year's convention drama.
Commit your way to Jehovah.
Have you found this to be inspiring and encouraging?
Well, you'll be happy to know that the governing body has approved preparing multiple soundtracks for the good news according to Jesus.
The...
Would you like to hear sample?
Let's listen to some audio excerpts of this soundtrack.
The music for the good news according to Jesus is very important to the governing body and so we're happy to share these excerpts with you.
You'll be happy to know that the release of the first soundtrack to GNJ will be in the late spring or early summer of 2025.
Well, the time has come for the concluding part of our program.
And it's a special treat.
That's all I'm going to say.
Brother David's plane will now give the talk, give Jehovah glory.
Well, I don't have to tell you that many people today are totally self-absorbed.
They spend a lot of time on the internet, a lot of time on social media talking about themselves, talking about their own accomplishments.
And that's in contrast with Jehovah's people because Jehovah's people are concerned with giving God glory.
And this is in line with what we read at Psalm 96 and verse 8.
Now this is the only text we're going to read during this talk and I am going to have a look at three words in the phrase that we're going to be reading.
So please let's look it up. I'll give you a moment to find it.
If you're like me sometimes it takes a little while to find things in the Bible.
Psalm 96 and verse 8.
And it's just the first clause, the first phrase that we're going to look at.
It says, give Jehovah the glory due his name.
Give Jehovah the glory due his name.
Now what were the circumstances during which these words were first spoken?
They were first spoken on a very happy occasion, a special spiritual occasion.
They were first spoken, they're part of the song.
And that song was first composed by David when he was bringing the ark of the covenant back to Jerusalem.
So you can imagine the joy with which these words were spoken.
And finally eventually that song became part of the Theocratic song book that the Israelites used when they were praising Jehovah.
Now we're going to focus on three words in this phrase that I just read.
Glory due and name.
Give Jehovah the glory due his name.
Now when you think of the word glory what comes to your mind?
If you're like me, you probably think of a blinding light, a light that's so intense that you have to shield your eyes.
And you might think of the words of the Apostle John when he wrote that God is light.
And so you might ask yourself, how could an imperfect person like me give God glory?
Well, it all comes together when we appreciate what the scriptures mean by glory.
Now let's be real simple.
Glory in the scriptures means anything that makes someone or something impressive.
I'm going to repeat that.
In the scriptures, glory means anything that makes someone or something impressive.
Now with that simple definition in mind we realize that we can ring glory to God in our preaching work.
Well we tell others how wonderful Jehovah is, how impressive he is.
We have many reasons to boast in our God.
Our God is merciful and compassionate.
Our God is empathetic when we feel hurt.
He feels hurt.
Our God is humble.
He shows concern for widows and orphans and others who are often neglected by society.
We also bring a glory to Jehovah when we give him credit for our accomplishments.
David did that.
Remember what David said?
By God's power, I can scale a wall.
But we can give glory to God without saying a word.
Think of the heavens.
What does the Bible say about the heavens?
There is no speech and there are no words.
Their voice is not heard.
Yet what does the Psalm continue to say?
The heavens are declaring the glory of God.
We can't help but be impressed by Jehovah's creation.
Well so much for glory.
Give Jehovah the glory due his name.
Now we give someone his due when we give him what's rightfully his.
And Jehovah has an absolute right to receive glory from men.
We're reminded of what the 24 elders said as recorded at Revelation 4 and verse 11.
They said, you are worthy Jehovah our God to receive the glory.
Give Jehovah the glory due his name.
What about God's name?
Well we were thrilled when we first learned that God has a name
and that prompted some of us to study the Bible and come into the truth.
Now if learning that God has a name had that effect on you,
don't you think that it could also have that effect on people in your territory?
Have you asked people in your territory recently what you like to see God's name in the Bible
or have you ever seen God's name in the Bible?
That could lead to some very interesting discussions.
A missionary serving in a country where most of the people believe in God.
They're either Catholic or Muslim but they all believe in God.
They don't know much about him but I like the way he reasons with them.
He says, when you want to become friends with someone,
the first thing you do is introduce yourself.
You tell him your name, he tells you his and you become friends.
But we all want to be friends of God.
So a good first step is to find out his name and then he reads the God's name in the Bible.
We give God glory when we defend his name and his reputation.
But what does the name mean?
Well many scholars say it means he causes to become.
And we know that Jehovah can cause us to become whatever he wants to be.
So think about what we heard earlier in this program today.
If he wants us to become a missionary, if he wants us to work in construction,
if he wants us to be a special pioneer or to serve at Bethel,
that Jehovah can give us the strength, he can give us the ability to do that.
And all we have to do is put our trust in him.
Now like the heavens, we can sometimes give God glory without saying a word.
How?
By our fine conduct.
How many unbelievers have come into the truth sometimes after being violently opposed for years
because of the conduct of their Christian mate and children?
How many unbelievers have been impressed by the way we take care of one another
and others when disaster strikes?
So we think about the words of Jesus and the sermon on the Mount.
When people see our fine works, they give glory to our Father in heaven.
Jehovah is also glorified when his servants respond to the leading of his spirit in their Christian life
when they become more humble, more loving, more trustworthy.
Now if you're an appointed man, have the elders found you to be more reasonable, more tactful,
more yielding over the years?
When they see those changes in us, our brothers and sisters don't fail to give credit to Jehovah God
and Jehovah God is praised.
So in 2025, let's give serious thought to ways we can give God glory.
And to remind us, those words, the words of Psalm 968,
are going to be posted in our kingdom halls as our ear text.
So what's the ear text again?
Psalm 968, give Jehovah the glory, do his name.
Now there's a poem entitled, Give Jehovah Glory.
And I'm going to read it to you. We don't usually, we don't do poetry in our publications
because it's too hard to translate.
But this is a good one and I'm going to read it to you.
It's entitled, Give Jehovah Glory.
Who is like you or Jehovah?
Hi on your heavenly throne.
How could I ever repay you for all of the love you have shown?
When I look up to the heavens, power and glory I see.
Who then am I, O Jehovah, that you would show favor to me?
My life is yours, O Jehovah.
May all I do bring you praise.
Gladly I'll speak of your goodness and tell of your glorious ways.
Serving you, great God, Jehovah, fills me with honor and pride.
You are my strength and my glory.
Forever may you be my God.
Oceans and valleys below me, sun, moon and stars up above, fill me with joy and with wonder
and show me your unending love.
Majesty, wisdom and beauty, these are the things that I see.
How could I not give you glory for making it all come to be?
Those words were composed for a very happy occasion.
A spiritual occasion.
They're part of a song.
An original song that was composed specially for this annual meeting.
And guess what?
Guess what?
We are going to sing that song at the conclusion of this meeting.
I said to the governing body, are you sure?
And they said, oh yes, they have tremendous confidence in your musical ability.
Now, just so you know, the governing body has decided that from now on,
a new original song based on the Eurotex is going to be featured at each annual meeting.
The brothers in music services are busy working on the one for 2026.
Now, during the past two months, the music team and translation services all around the world
have been working feverishly to translate, record and mix the song.
And as a result of their efforts, when this talk is released on October the 14th,
the song will be released simultaneously with the English in over 400 languages.
So, let's see how those words sound when they're put to music.
Now, remember, we're going to be singing this song at the conclusion of the meeting.
And we don't want anybody just moving the lips with no sound coming out.
There is a reason why we call it a song.
So pay attention and enjoy.
Give Jehovah glory.
You sure are an encouraging group with all this applause.
You know, that's why we're going over time.
Well, now, if you're listening in your room, when the time comes to sing,
be sure to join in. Remember, the Lord is listening.
So don't think that just because you're in private, that you shouldn't join in.
Now, we all want to join in.
And this is a way we can give additional glory to Jehovah.
So, in 2025, let's pay special attention to ways we can give God glory.
He certainly is worthy.
We pray that this program has strengthened your faith and will encourage each one of us
to remain steadfast in Jehovah's service and having plenty to do in the work of the Lord.
Be assured that the governing body loves each of you.
And we're truly interested in your everlasting welfare as one of Jehovah's precious sheep.
What a joy to share this beautiful program with all of you.
Let's conclude with this month's video postcard, which takes us to Armenia.
Armenia lies east of Turkje and south of the Caucasus mountain range.
Jerevan, its capital and Georgian magnificent view of Mount Ararat,
where according to tradition Noah's Ark, came to rest.
Armenia is even more mountainous than Switzerland with deep river valleys,
forest and extinct volcanoes.
More than 3,000 plant species thrive in this small country.
Farms produce a variety of crops, pomegranates, cherries,
peaches and 50 different types of apricots,
which are sometimes called Armenian apples.
Jehovah's witnesses have been active in Armenia since 1975,
when the country was still part of the Soviet Union.
For many years, congregation meetings were held in homes,
and it was not possible to hold assemblies or conventions here.
But, beginning in 1989, witnesses in Armenia were invited
to attend international conventions in other countries,
including this one in Kiev, Ukraine in 1993.
That same year authorities began imprisoning our brothers for their neutrality.
Over the next 20 years, more than 500 brothers were sentenced to prison terms
of up to three years.
But in 2011, the European Court of Human Rights upheld the right
to refuse military service based on conscientious objection.
This was the first time that the court recognized that conscientious objection
to military service based on one's religious beliefs
should be protected under the right of freedom of thought, conscience and religion.
By November 2013, all imprisoned brothers had been released.
Today, more than 11,000 publishers and 2,480 pioneers surf in Armenia.
They preached in seven languages, including Persian, Kurdish, Kurmanji, Hindi and Russian sign language.
On December 7, 1988, an earthquake devastated Armenians' northern region.
It claimed some 25,000 lives and left half a million people homeless.
The quake destroyed the town of Spitoch, which has since recovered
though some evidence of the quake remains.
Through it all, our brothers and sisters continue diligently to share the good news.
The 44 publishers and 18 regular pioneers in the Spitoch congregation
sentenced their warm love and greetings.
From the world headquarters of Jehovah's Witnesses, this is J.W. Broadcasting.